Not your typical dashboard Wednesday post, but I want to share my selfhosting story. 

TLDR: After struggling with WiFi when switching my home server from Win 10 to Linux Mint, my dad fixed the ethernet cable and I was able to hardwire it. It stopped me from giving up Linux servers and dive deeper into the selfhosting rabbit hole.

Long Version with Context:
In Winter of 2022, I remember on a WAN Show, Linus was talking about Home Assistant. Then Linus said something like "not everyone has times and setup Docker and homelab, people have other hobbies, maybe some people want to spend more time cooking rather than messing about Docker/homelab and eat ramen". I was motivated, I thought Docker must be what I needed in my life. I want to be the guy that spend endless time messing about tech not cooking. So I dove into Docker research and discovered the home server community.

Summer 2022 I came home and upgraded my parents' HTPC (AMD A10-7800, 12GB RAM, 2TB HDD) with my old SSD. I installed Win 10, Jellyfin and with my primitive knowledge in Docker, I deployed Minecraft and the usual media stack. I also watched YouTubers such as NetworkChuck (NC), RaidOwl, TechnoTim and mostly reddit to learn about selfhosting and Docker.

Despite using 5GHz WiFi because of distance, I was able to get 12MB/s (100 Mbps) on Windows SMB to my laptop. One day at work, which has fast internet, I was even able to stream a 10 Mbps movie in Jellyfin, our upload speed is 15 Mbps.

As time goes on. I've discovered many recommend using Linux over Windows for home server. I had some exposure to Linux from NC and YouTube videos. I also had problem with Nginx Proxy Manager in Windows that keeps failing and I wasn't able to get SSL certificate (I didn't know docker logs existed then). I wanted to give Linux a try, so I install Linux Mint in VirtualBox. Out of curiosity, I redeployed NPM, changed router port forward to my VM, it... just... works... I was also able to setup PiVPN Wireguard which allowed me to access everything on my LAN without port forward. Amazing. I want to deploy Linux for real.

It worked as expected, Docker and apps runs even better now. Then disaster struck. When I began transferring files via the SMB, only 2MB/s, same thing with SCP. I was getting 12 MB/s on WiFi in Windows. Well, 2MB/s is still faster than my upload of 15Mbps and my small movie collection's bitrate, so it's fine right? Heck no. Next day at work, I tried streaming a 5Mbps file from Jellyfin, it'd constantly buffer, whereas in Windows even 10Mbps file plays fine. It even buffers on my LAN. Unusable. I did try ethernet, but our long distance cable has a broken clip and it doesn't attach. After sleepless night troubleshooting, trying random configs, tweaks online with no avail. I nearly gave up on Linux until I talked to my dad.

He borrow a crimper and RJ45 from a friend, we fixed the cable. I was in great relief when I saw my VLC debug information showing a six figure number (>100Mbps). With that success, I deployed even more Docker apps, got HTTPS and VPN working, by the time I left home, I had a fully functioning Linux server. Today, I have multiple home servers, cloud VPS and a Proxmox playground, all using Linux. Looking back, if I had given up Linux for Windows, the outcome would be vastly different. That ethernet cable was a pivotal part of my selfhosting journey, leading to projects like bios modding, Proxmox, VPS Tunnel, cursed laptopserver and HTPC KVM. It was an ethernet cable that started it all.